.\" =========================================================================
.\" (C) Copyright 2015 Sam Hobbs <sam@samhobbs.co.uk>,
.\" 
.\" This document is released under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" License, as published by the Free Software Foundation, version 2 or (at
.\" your option) any later version.  You should have received a copy of the
.\" GNU General Public License along with this program.  If not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.TH AUDITLOG2DB 1 "February  15, 2015"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" http://babbage.cs.qc.edu/courses/cs701/Handouts/man_pages.html
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\"
.\" .RS start a nested indentation
.\" .RE end a nested indentation
.\"
.\" .I italics (underlined) text
.\"
.\" .B bold text
.\"
.\"
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
auditlog2db \- read a modsecurity auditlog file into a sqlite3 database
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B auditlog2db
.RB [\- i " \fIlogfile\fP]"
.RB [\- o " \fIdatabase\fP]"
[ \fIoptions\fP ]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B auditlog2db
command.
.PP
\fBauditlog2db\fP is a commandline tool that can be used to read a modsecurity audit
log file into an sqlite3 database, to aid the creation of a whitelist to remove false
positives.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug
Turn on debugging.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-force
Skips through interactive questions/warnings/prompts (use this if you are running
auditlog2db in a script).
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-input
Input file (an Apache ModSecurity audit log file).
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-output
Output: a sqlite database. If the database does not currently exist it will be created.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Quiet mode; eliminate informational messages.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
A basic example with no options - read the current apache audit log file into an
sqlite3 database file called modsecurity.db in your home directory:
.IP
\fCauditlog2db -i /var/log/apache2/modsec_audit.log -o ~/modsecurity.db\fP
.LP
Same as above but prints no warnings or output:
.IP
\fCauditlog2db -f -q -i /var/log/apache2/modsec_audit.log -o ~/modsecurity.db\fP
.LP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sqlite3 (1)